python-xero-minimal
===================

Example of using the Xero API from the command line, with minimal
external dependencies. This example simply fetches an organisation
name and shortcode using the
[Organisation](https://developer.xero.com/documentation/api/accounting/organisation)
endpoint.

Start by creating a "Mobile or desktop app" at
https://developer.xero.com/app/manage â€” this shows as an app of type
"PKCE" in your list of apps.

You will need a redirect URI for this app.  Feel free to make use of
https://quicktill.assorted.org.uk/xero.html which simply displays its
URI in a box to make copying and pasting easier.

You will need to be able to open links from your terminal, and paste
from your web browser into the terminal.

__Warning: this demo creates a file called `xerostate.json` that
contains an access token for your Xero organisation. Delete this file,
or run the demo again with the `--disconnect` option to invalidate the
token, when you are finished!__


Running the demo
----------------

Ensure [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) is installed.

Run `poetry install` to install dependencies, then `poetry run
xero-demo` to start the demo.

The first time you run the demo, you will be prompted to enter
(paste!) the client ID and redirect URI for the app you
created. These, and other persistent state, will be stored in a file
called `xerostate.json`. If you need to change them you should delete
this file.

The demo will display a URL for you to visit. At this URL you will be
prompted to log in to Xero and authorise one or more organisations for
the demo to access. You will end up at your redirect URI and must
paste the URI into the demo.

A list of available Xero tenants will be displayed: enter the index of
the tenant you want the demo to access.

Finally, the demo will use the
[Organisation](https://developer.xero.com/documentation/api/accounting/organisation)
endpoint to fetch and display the organisation name and shortcode.

On the second and subsequent run, the demo will use the token
retrieved in the first run (refreshing it if necessary) and should be
able to access the Organisation endpoint with no further interaction.

To disconnect after running the demo, use `poetry run xero-demo
--disconnect` to revoke the refresh token.
